applications: nrf_desktop: Add user guide (#1696)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/README.rst

LLPM enables sending data with high report rate (up to 1000 reports per second), which is not supported by the standard BLE.

Connection through USB
======================

The nRF Desktop devices use the USB HID class.
No additional software or drivers are required.

The devices that are connected both wirelessly and through the USB at the same time will provide the input only through the USB.
After the USB disconnection, the device will automatically switch to sending the data wirelessly using Bluetooth.

Battery-powered devices with rechargeable batteries are charged through the USB.

Connection through BLE
======================

When turned on, the nRF Desktop peripherals are advertising until they go to the suspended state or connect through Bluetooth.
The peripheral supports one wireless connection at a time, but it may be bonded with multiple peers.

The nRF Desktop central scans for all bonded peripherals that are not connected.
The scanning is interrupted when any device connected to the dongle through Bluetooth is in use.
Continuing the scanning in such scenario would cause report rate drop.

> The scanning for new peers starts automatically when one of the bonded peers disconnects.

Author: The scanning for the known peers

Author: We do not scan for new peers here

It also takes place periodically when a known peer is not connected.

BLE peer control
----------------

A connected BLE peer device can be controlled using predefined buttons or button combinations.
There are several peer operations available.

The peer operation states provide visual feedback through LEDs (if the device has LEDs).
Each of the states is represented by separate LED color and effect.

Gaming mouse
++++++++++++

> The following predefined buttons or button combinations are assigned to peer control operations for the gaming mouse:

Author: Can hardware switch be referenced as button or button combination? Maybe use user inputs ?

Reviewer: `hardware interface elements`?

Author: ok

Hardware switch:
    * The switch is located next to the optical sensor.
    * You can set the switch in the following positions:

>         * Top position: Connection to the dongle peer active.

Author: Maybe better: Dongle peer is selected ?
If dongle will not establish the connection, there will be no active connection.

Reviewer: That's ok, as long as you keep the style and format of other bullet points consistent.

Author: done

Precision Aim button:
    * The button is located on the left side of the mouse, in the thumb area.
    * Short click to initialize the peer selection.
      During the peer selection:
        
        1. Short click to select the next peer.
        #. Double click to confirm the peer selection. 
           The peer is changed after the confirmation.

    * Long click to initialize the peer erase, then double click to confirm the operation.
      After the confirmation, Bluetooth advertising using a new local identity is started.
      When a new Bluetooth central successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.
      If the new peer does not connect in the predefined period of time, the advertising ends and the application switches back to the old peer.
    * Press the button for time longer than short click, but shorter than long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Desktop mouse
+++++++++++++

The following predefined buttons are assigned to peer control operations for the desktop mouse:

Scroll wheel button:

>     * The scroll wheel must be pressed before the mouse is powered up.

Author: We should add:
and hold for long time.
We need long click here.

Reviewer: `long time` is very subjective. Can you be more specific? How many seconds are we talking about? Same goes for all other long, mid, short clicks mentioned in the document, and especially the last case of "longer than short click, but shorter than long click".

Author: Ok, I will add more detailed explaination.

        
        * After the confirmation, Bluetooth advertising using a new local identity is started.
          When a new Bluetooth central successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.
          If the new peer does not connect in the predefined period of time, the advertising ends and the application switches back to the old peer.
    
    * Press the button for time longer than short click, but shorter than long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Keyboard
++++++++

The following predefined buttons or button combinations are assigned to peer control operations for the keyboard:

> Page Down key:

Author: Maybe: Page Down with Fn key modifier?

Reviewer: You press only one repeatedly, so I would keep this as it is.

Author: ok

        #. Double press to confirm the peer selection. 
           The peer is changed after the confirmation.
           
    * Long press to initialize the peer erase, then double press to confirm the operation.
        
        * After the confirmation, Bluetooth advertising using a new local identity is started.
          When a new Bluetooth central successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.
          If the new peer does not connect in the predefined period of time, the advertising ends and the application switches back to the old peer.
    
    * Press the button for time longer than short click, but shorter than long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Dongle
++++++

The following predefined buttons are assigned to peer control operations for the dongle:

SW1 button:
    * Long click to initialize peer erase, then double click to confirm the operation.
      After the confirmation, all the Bluetooth bonds are removed.
    * Short click to start scanning for both bonded and not bonded Bluetooth peripherals.
      The scan will be interrupted if another peripheral connected to the dongle is in use.

>     * Press the button for a time longer than short click, but shorter than a long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Author: We should add information about peer operation cancel too.

The application was designed to allow easy porting to a new HW.
Check :ref:`porting_guide` for information about the device porting steps.

User interface
**************

The nRF Desktop devices provide the user input to the host in the same way as other mice and keyboards, using the following options:

    * Connection through USB
    * Connection through BLE

> The devices can also provide input through the nRF Desktop dongle, which is connected to the host through USB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The devices can also provide input through the nRF Desktop dongle connected to the host through USB.
```

> The dongle receives data from the peripherals connected through Bluetooth and forwards the data to the host.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dongle receives data from the peripherals connected through Bluetooth Low Energy and forwards the data to the host.
```

> The peripheral connection can be based on standard BLE connection parameters or BLE with Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The peripheral connection can be based on standard BLE connection parameters or on BLE with Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM).
```

> LLPM is a proprietary Bluetooth extension from Nordic Semiconductor and can be used only if it is supported by both connected devices (desktop mice do not support it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LLPM is a proprietary Bluetooth extension from Nordic Semiconductor.
It can be used only if it is supported by both connected devices - it is supported by gaming mice, but not by desktop mice.
```

Do we have any more information about LLPM somewhere that we could link to?

LLPM enables sending data with high report rate (up to 1000 reports per second), which is not supported by the standard BLE.

Connection through USB
----------------------

The nRF Desktop devices use the USB HID class.
No additional software or drivers are required.

> The devices that are connected both wirelessly and through the USB at the same time will provide the input only through the USB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The devices that are connected both wirelessly and through USB at the same time provide their input only through the USB connection.
```

> After the USB disconnection, the device will automatically switch to sending the data wirelessly using Bluetooth.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the device is disconnected from USB, it automatically switches to sending data wirelessly using Bluetooth Low Energy.
```

Battery-powered devices with rechargeable batteries are charged through the USB.

Connection through BLE
----------------------

When turned on, the nRF Desktop peripherals are advertising until they go to the suspended state or connect through Bluetooth.
The peripheral supports one wireless connection at a time, but it may be bonded with multiple peers.

> The nRF Desktop central scans for all bonded peripherals that are not connected.

Reviewer 2: I think Central should be capitalized in this context, let me know what you think @greg-fer

Reviewer: I checked other BLE modules/samples, and peripheral was de-capitalized there. So I applied the same rule for Central.

> The nRF Desktop central scans for all bonded peripherals that are not connected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The nRF Desktop central device scans for all bonded peripherals that are not connected.
```

The scanning is interrupted when any device connected to the dongle through Bluetooth is in use.
Continuing the scanning in such scenario would cause report rate drop.

The scanning starts automatically when one of the bonded peers disconnects.
It also takes place periodically when a known peer is not connected.

BLE peer control
++++++++++++++++

A connected BLE peer device can be controlled using predefined buttons or button combinations.
There are several peer operations available.

The application distinguishes between the following button press types:

* short - button pressed for time shorter than 0.5 second.
* none - button pressed for time longer than 0.5 seconds, but shorter than 5 seconds.

> * long - button pressed for time longer than 5 seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Long - button pressed for longer than 5 seconds.
```

> * double - button pressed twice in quick succesion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Double - button pressed twice in quick succession.
```

The peer operation states provide visual feedback through LEDs (if the device has LEDs).
Each of the states is represented by separate LED color and effect.

> The LED colors and effects are described in ``led_state_def.h`` file located in the board-specific directory in the application configuration folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The LED colors and effects are described in the :file:`led_state_def.h` file located in the board-specific directory in the application configuration folder.
```

Gaming mouse
$$$$$$$$$$$$

The following predefined hardware interface elements are assigned to peer control operations for the gaming mouse:

Hardware switch:
    * The switch is located next to the optical sensor.
    * You can set the switch in the following positions:

        * Top position: Select the dongle peer.
        * Middle position: Select the BLE peers.
        * Bottom position: Mouse turned off.

      When the dongle peer is selected, the peer control is disabled until the switch is set to another position.

Precision Aim button:
    * The button is located on the left side of the mouse, in the thumb area.

>     * Short click to initialize the peer selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Short-click to initialize the peer selection.
```

      During the peer selection:

>         1. Short click to select the next peer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        1. Short-click to select the next peer.
```

>         #. Double click to confirm the peer selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        #. Double-click to confirm the peer selection.
```

           The peer is changed after the confirmation.

>     * Long click to initialize the peer erase, then double click to confirm the operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Long-click to initialize the peer erase, then double-click to confirm the operation.
```

      After the confirmation, Bluetooth advertising using a new local identity is started.

>       When a new Bluetooth central successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      When a new Bluetooth central device successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.
```

      If the new peer does not connect in the predefined period of time, the advertising ends and the application switches back to the old peer.
    * Press the button for time longer than short click, but shorter than long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Desktop mouse
$$$$$$$$$$$$$

The following predefined buttons are assigned to peer control operations for the desktop mouse:

Scroll wheel button:
    * The scroll wheel must be pressed before the mouse is powered up.

        * After the confirmation, Bluetooth advertising using a new local identity is started.

>           When a new Bluetooth central successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          When a new Bluetooth central device successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.
```

          If the new peer does not connect in the predefined period of time, the advertising ends and the application switches back to the old peer.

    * Press the button for time longer than short click, but shorter than long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Keyboard
$$$$$$$$

The following predefined buttons or button combinations are assigned to peer control operations for the keyboard:

Page Down key:

>     * The Page Down key must be pressed while keeping pressed the Fn modifier key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The Page Down key must be pressed while keeping the Fn modifier key pressed.
```

>     * Short press the Page Down key to initialize the peer selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Short-press the Page Down key to initialize the peer selection.
```

      During the peer selection:

>         1. Short press to select the next peer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        1. Short-press to select the next peer.
```

>         #. Double press to confirm the peer selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        #. Double-press to confirm the peer selection.
```

           The peer is changed after the confirmation.

>     * Long press to initialize the peer erase, then double press to confirm the operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Long-press to initialize the peer erase, then double-press to confirm the operation.
```

        * After the confirmation, Bluetooth advertising using a new local identity is started.

>           When a new Bluetooth central successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          When a new Bluetooth central device successfully connects and establishes security, the old bond is removed and the new bond is used instead.
```

          If the new peer does not connect in the predefined period of time, the advertising ends and the application switches back to the old peer.

    * Press the button for time longer than short click, but shorter than long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Dongle
$$$$$$

The following predefined buttons are assigned to peer control operations for the dongle:

SW1 button:

>     * Long click to initialize peer erase, then double click to confirm the operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Long-click to initialize peer erase, then double-click to confirm the operation.
```

      After the confirmation, all the Bluetooth bonds are removed.

>     * Short click to start scanning for both bonded and not bonded Bluetooth peripherals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Short-click to start scanning for both bonded and not bonded Bluetooth peripherals.
```

>       The scan will be interrupted if another peripheral connected to the dongle is in use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The scan is interrupted if another peripheral connected to the dongle is in use.
```

    * Press the button for a time longer than short click, but shorter than a long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

Power Management
----------------

Reducing power consumption is important for every battery-powered device.

> The nRF Desktop peripherals are either suspended or powered off when they are not in use for a predefined amount of time:

Reviewer 2: we could mention where this is predefined

>     * In the suspended state, the device will maintain the active connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * In the suspended state, the device maintains the active connection.
```

>     * In the powered off state, the CPU will be switched to the off mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * In the powered off state, the CPU is switched to the off mode.
```

    * In both cases, most of the functionalities are disabled.
      For example, LEDs are turned off and advertising is stopped.

> Moving the mouse or pressing any button will wake up the device and turn on the disabled functionalities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moving the mouse or pressing any button wakes up the device and turns on the disabled functionalities.
```

The Peripherals may be connected using standard BLE or LLPM connection parameters.
The LLPM enables sending data with high report rate (up to 1000 reports per second), which is not supported by the BLE standard.
The LLPM is proprietary Bluetooth extension from Nordic Semiconductor and may be used only if it is supported by both connected devices (desktop mice do not support it).

USB connection
==============

The devices use USB HID class - no additional software or drivers are required.
The devices connected wirelessly and through the USB at the same time will provide the input only through the USB.
After USB disconnection, the device will automatically switch to sending the data wirelessly (using Bluetooth).
Battery powered devices with rechargeable batteries are charged via the USB.

Bluetooth connection
====================

When turned on, the nRF52 Desktop Peripherals are advertising until they go to suspended state or connect via the Bluetooth.
The Peripheral supports one wireless connection at a time, but it may be bonded with multiple peers.

The nRF52 Desktop Central scans for all the bonded Peripherals that are not connected.

> The scanning is interrupted if any dongle connected device is in use - it would negatively affect user experience (causes report rate drop).

Reviewer 3: s/causes report rate drop/causing report rate drop

Author: done

The scanning for new peers will not be started automatically if all the bonded peers are connected.

BLE Peer control
----------------

The connected BLE peer can be controlled using predefined button or button combination:

* gaming mouse - "aim button" located on the left side of the mouse.
* desktop mice - press the scroll (the scroll has to be pressed before the mouse is powered up).

> * keyboard - Page Down key with Fn modifier key.

Reviewer 3: pressed together with Fn modifier key

Author: done

    The desktop mice do not have dedicated key used for peer control.
    Long press of the scroll must be started before the mouse is turned on.
    The confirmation is not needed.

* **start scan**

  - Central (the dongle)

    Short click to instantly start scanning for both bonded and not bonded Bluetooth Peripherals.
    The scan will be interrupted if another dongle connected device is in use.

* **cancel operation**

  - all the nRF52 Desktop devices

    Press the button for time longer than short click, but shorter than long click to cancel ongoing peer operation.

During the Bluetooth peer operations visual feedback is provided using LED (if the device has LEDs).
Each of the states is represented by separate LED color and effect.

Power Management
================

Reducing power consumption is important for every battery powered device.
The nRF52 Desktop Peripherals are suspended (if BLE connected) or powered off (if not connected via BLE) when they are not in use for predefined amount of time.
In that case most of the functionalities are disabled - for example LEDs are turned off and advertising is stopped.

> Moving mouse or pressing any button will wake up the device and turn on the disabled functionalities.

Reviewer 3: In suspended state the device will maintain the active connection while in powered off state CPU will be switched to OFF mode.

When mouse is powered from the USB power down timeout is disabled.

Author: done
